The Elemental Plane of Water, also known as the **Boundless Sea**, is part of the Inner Sphere and composed almost entirely of fresh and salt water. It surrounds the [[Plane of Air]] and is in turn surrounded by the [[Plane of Earth]]. Detritus from other planes provides pockets of air and solid material,1 and it is perhaps the most hospitable of the Elemental Planes for extraplanar travellers. The Boundless Sea is ruled by [[Lorrenil]], the Brine Empress.

### Geography
The Plane of Water is a truly immense spherical shell of salt, fresh, and brackish water. On one side is the Plane of Air, which provides most of the light for the plane, and near which most of the plane's fresh water is located. On the other extreme is the Plane of Earth, where the waters of the plane near total darkness and their highest level of salinity. While most of the plane consists of liquid water, intrusions from neighbouring planes provide solid ground within the oceans. These include masses of rock fallen away from the Plane of Earth, masses of ice from the Plane of Air, and the ruins of lost cities from other worlds. In some places, spires of solidified magma project through the Plane of Water entirely and into that of Air. These areas of solid ground are often home to the plane's settlements.

Where the Plane of Water borders the Plane of Air, storms often sink into the waters to form enormous whirlpools and waterspouts. At the border with the Plane of Earth, the water becomes tinged with sediments and thermal vents shoot jets of mineral-rich water and superheated brine into the oceans of the plane.

### Inhabitants
For obvious reasons, this realm is inhabited almost exclusively by aquatic and other water-breathing creatures. The race of genies known as faydhaans once controlled a vast empire, in nearly-constant warfare with the sedacthys. In the darker depths, cyclopean kraken and brine drakes make up its less innocuous denizens. Beyond these larger populations, small settlements of water scamps, tritons, merfolk, and a staggering variety of more mundane aquatic life makes its home here.

The Plane of Water is home to numerous species beyond the dominant ones, both native and immigrant. Merfolk are immigrants to the plane, having settled here at an unknown date, and live in carefully hidden settlements throughout its expanse. In the unlit waters close to the Plane of Earth, deep merfolk can be found. Undines, likewise descended from immigrants to the plane, live in communities throughout the Plane of Water. Although they are scattered and often found living among the other races, rumors claim that they are planning to unite to form a major power of their own.

Other species, including [[Athamaru]], merrows, ceratioidi, ocean giants, murajau, tojanidas, and suli, are also present in the waters of the plane.