The Elemental Plane of Earth, also known as the **Eternal Delve**, is located within the Inner Sphere, between the [[Plane of Water]] and the [[Plane of Fire]]. It is a realm of seemingly endless rock riddled with caverns, some of them the size of entire planets. The Eternal Delve is ruled by [[Utharun]], the Fossilized King.

### Geography
This plane is composed primarily of rock and earth, criss-crossed by veins of precious metal and gemstones of such gigantic proportions that they cannot be believed by those who have never set foot there. Interspersed with this solid rock and earth are caverns of all sizes, some of them dark and dry, others filled with water and phosphorescent fungus. Others yet are lit by enormous crystals, enchanted by the native jabali genies to illuminate vast caves, like miniature suns.

Intrusions of elemental fire and water extend from the Plane of Earth's borders with the other elemental planes: bodies of magma and volcanic tunnels extend from the Plane of Fire, while the influence of the Plane of Water results in vast buried oceans and in bodies of limestone and salt. A tunnel known as the Vent extends through the Plane of Earth from its border with Fire on one side to that with Water on the other.

### Inhabitants
The Plane of Earth is home to mighty mercantile empires of jabalis who freely trade the incredible mineral wealth of their home to planar travellers or the migrating nations of jann merchants. Also found in the plane are the haunts of the crystal dragons, a native race of dragons who fiercely guard their treasures and are often found ruling small nations of other species, providing safety from the slavery common in the jabalis' empire. Xiomorns control large sections of the plane, and themselves pay obeisance to Utharun. Earth elementals are much more protective of the plane's mineral riches, seeing its dispersal as an almost personal violation of their bodies.

Other native life in the Endless Delve includes earth and dust scamps, mud elementals, xorn, cullitox, and the serpentine agrawghs, whose tunnelling is thought to have created many of the Plane of Earth's tunnels. Species more common on other planes, such as oreads, dwarves, humans and the occasional elves, can be found inhabiting larger caverns and hollow spaces. Magma elementals, magma oozes and the huge, wormlike thoqquas live along the Plane of Earth's border with the Plane of Fire.