The Colonial Faction of [[Ardia]] is the governing body presided over by [[Halmyr]]. This faction is made up of three core pillars of governance over Ardia; the High Protector, the Office of Judicial Control, and the Containment Forces.

**The High Protector:** The High Protector of Ardia is the single, most visible ruler of the Protectorate. They are appointed directly by the Pope of the Octavian Faith, and are usually a senior cleric-noble or high ranking veteran of one of the Faith's ministries. A new High Protector is brought in roughly every 10-20 years to limit prolonged exposure to what the Faith believes are cursed lands. The High Protector mandates a number of roles; they maintain political stability of Ardia, enforce Halmyran law and doctrine, prevent the rise of any native powers, and serve as Halmyr's voice and hands for the nation of Ardia. The High Protector governs over Ardia from the coastal fort of Kraggath.

**The Office of Judicial Control:** The Office of Judicial Control is the colonial extension of the Octavian Faith's Ministry of Prosecution, with expanded authority. They play a major part in controlling the populace of Ardia. They have absolution jurisdiction over investigations into; heresy, sedition, anti-Halmyran activity and rhetoric, unauthorized Orcish assemblies. They have the authority to override local native courts and rulership, as well as the power to detain citizens indefinitely "for doctrinal review".

**The Containment Forces:** The Containment Forces are a faction of Halmyr's armies. They maintain a permanent presence in Ardia and are tasked specifically with the guarding of Darkspire, the enforcement of restricted zones and areas, as well as the suppression of uprisings. The Containment Forces are comprised of not only Halmyr's Knights, but also Hobgoblins and Orcs that have converted.